Hey guys, welcome back.
So last time I welded this cylinder head here
and if you haven’t seen that video, you
might want to go check that one out.
What I did was I used my MIG to fill in some
places where it blew out at the coolant passages
and then I used a wood router to flatten those
welds down.
It looks pretty good.
Like I said in the last video, I had to make
another pass of the welder, so I did that
and then came back over again with the router
and took a look.
There’s one place right here where I still
got a little bit of an imperfection, but we’re
going to get rid of that when we flatten this
whole cylinder head here.
I haven’t checked, it’s probably, I don’t
know it’s probably pretty flat.
Maybe it’s warped a little bit, but in any
other case we’re going to clean it up.
There’s some pitting, you know, from where
the gasket was and stuff.
Oh yeah, so this part here, I’m not super
happy with how close this passage ended up
to the ceiling surface of the combustion chamber.
If you look down in there, I think I might
have gotten a little bit carried away with
the Dremel when I was widening this out, which
is stupid because if you look at the gasket,
these holes, they’re not even completely
used.
It’s just a little teeny pinhole to let
the coolant through, so I didn’t even need
to grind it out much.
My thought was that if I left the welds how
they were, there’d be places for crap to
collect behind there and you know, so I wanted
a smooth transition.
This might have actually been a little bit
more corroded out at this point anyway.
I wish I had noticed that as I was doing it,
but I think it will be okay.
I think it’s going to hold at least for
a little while.
So let me show you how I’m going to flatten
this and I’m going to use my table saw.
I’m going to use the cast iron table that’s
on it.
So these cast iron tables were ground flat
at the factory so they’re a nice, good reference
surface to use.
I just cleaned it up, there’s a little bit
of surface rust, but it’s nothing, it’s
just staining, so I used a little razor blade
just to get any high points off.
Then, came over with the 3M pad.
An old machinist once told me that your finger
can feel a millionth of an inch, which is
crazy, but it makes sense if you, you know,
you can feel like a tiny little hair and just
the things that you can perceive.
This feels pretty good to me.
So we’re going to use some 3M spray adhesive
here, this is called Super 77, and it’s
just like a spray contact adhesive kind of
thing.
And then I’ve got some 80 grit sandpaper
and we’re going to put this down.
I’m not sure, the back of this stuff has
kind of like a tacky kind of surface on it.
I might be able to get away with it, let’s
see, oh yeah I don’t need to spray the back
of the sandpaper either.
That sticks really well.
Yeah.
The important thing is that they don’t overlap
of course.
There can be a little bit of a gap, that’s
fine.
So here’s the idea, and let me get that
last piece on and basically just going to
rub the cylinder head against it until it’s
all cleaned up.
Let’s give it a shot.
[ Metal rubbing sound ] So you might not know,
but I know this from woodworking, you can
actually take a flat surface and sandpaper
and a flat piece and end up putting a curve
into it, if you’re not careful with how
you put pressure into the piece.
This thing is pretty heavy, so it’s easy
to just kind of rock it back and forth.
So I’m not too worried about that, but it
is possible if you were to say, like leaning
on one side more than the other, you could
actually sand off one side more and then it
ends up not being flat.
So the key here is to just kind like, let
the weight of this thing do it, you know,
help you out, and just apply horizontal forces,
then try not to push down on it at all.
[ Metal rubbing sound ] Yeah you can see,
I don’t know if you can see, I can see that
this end, and up over here, kind of getting
a little bit more scratches in it than some
places in the middle.
Like right here, right here, you can see that
must have been a low point.
So it is warped a little bit, so it’s good
we’re doing this.
This will get it all down to a flat surface.
And I’m going to clean the sandpaper often.This
stuff is actually brushing right off.
A Vacuum would be good here, and maybe a dust
mask.
[ Metal rubbing sound ] We’re getting there.
All right, well you get the idea.
So it’s looking like it’s a lot elbow
grease, but uh, it’s how it goes when you
don’t have a mill.
Someday.
So, I’m going to have to keep doing this,
but it’s getting late and I gotta get ready
for work.
So it’s going to be the end of this video.
I am planning, I’m not sure though, I was
planning on coming back with 120 grit sandpaper,
but you know, they don’t sand it from the
machine shop, they just leave a machine surface.
I’m thinking this 80 grit is even smoother
than what we need really for a gasket surface.
In fact, I think you do want a little bite
for the gasket to seal properly.
So yeah, I’ve got a little bit more here
to go.
There’s still some corrosion here I want
to get down to, so it’s clean now and it’s
pretty flat. and It’ll probably fine, but
I do want to just get rid of some, a little
bit more, to make this all bright metal.
So all right, then after that I got to clean
the whole thing, I haven’t figured out the
best way to clean it yet.
Probably just brushes and acetone or something.
Probably going to be a very manual process,
but um, I wish I have some kind of tank to
dip it in of uh, not water this time, but
some kind of solvent or something.
And then, even before I do that, maybe I’m
going to clean up the valves and make sure
that the valves are clean, clean up the seats
and the guides and make sure the valves are
still sitting here properly and didn’t warp
that, because if that’s the case, then I
got to go bring it and have a valve job done,
which is some money I didn’t want to spend.
Then I might end up buying an aftermarket
head at that point if it comes to that.
So we’ll see.
All right, a little bit long-winded, but thanks
for watching.
I hope you found this somewhat interesting,
and if it helped you at all, let me know in
the comments.
If you think this is stupid, let me know that
in the comments too.
I always like to hear those, honestly.
It’s good to hear from you guys.
Thanks for watching, we’ll see you next
time.